This tool will create a disk image for OS X, given the downloaded installer OS .app (or the InstallESD.dmg inside the .app). Once built, the new disk image can be used along with packer to create a bootable disk image. Hooray!

The `-l` flag (described below) should be chosen based on the intended environment, either VirtualBox or QEMU.

All builds should run locally, even for QEMU - just transfer the finished image over to vmbuilder, etc.

# Getting Started

First, we need a copy of the Sierra app. You might already have it - check the location below. If not, it's easiest to download a copy from the App store (unfortunately). Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/macos-sierra/id1127487414?mt=12

It's possible to build a machine with different admin account settings, and without the vagrant ssh keys, for use with other systems, e.g. continuous integration.

Use with the Fusion provider requires Vagrant 1.3.0, and use with the VirtualBox provider Vagrant 1.6.3 if using the Rsync file sync mechanism. Note that the VeeWee template also does not have any VirtualBox or Parallels support.

Provisioning steps that are defined in the template via items in the [scripts](https://github.com/timsutton/osx-vm-templates/tree/master/scripts) directory:
- [Vagrant-specific configuration](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/boxes/base.html)
- VM guest tools installation if on VMware
- Xcode CLI tools installation
- Chef installation via the [Chef Omnitruck method](https://docs.chef.io/install_omnibus.html)
- Puppet installation via [Puppetlabs Mac installers](https://downloads.puppetlabs.com/mac), both legacy and 4
- Disk shrinking for VMware

## Supported guest OS versions

Currently this prepare script and template supports all versions of OS X that are distributed through the App Store: OS X Lion (10.7) through El Capitan (10.11), and macOS Sierra (10.12).

This project currently only supplies a single Packer template (`template.json`), so the hypervisor's configured guest OS version (i.e. `darwin12-64`) does not accurately reflect the actual installed OS. I haven't found there to be any functional differences depending on these configured guest versions.

# Building the Image

Now use `prepare_iso.sh` with the downloaded Sierra app by running:
```
sudo prepare_iso/prepare_iso.sh -D DISABLE_REMOTE_MANAGEMENT -D DISABLE_SCREEN_SHARING -D DISABLE_SIP -l <SPUD|GPTSPUD> "/Applications/Install macOS Sierra.app" ~/iso
```

About the command:
- `-D` flags are all necessary.
- `-l` flag is the partition layout. Use `SPUD` for VirtualBox, `GPTSPUD` for QEMU.
- First parameter after the flags is the location of either the Sierra app, or the path to `InstallESD.dmg` inside the app (`/Applications/Install macOS Sierra.app/Contents/SharedSupport/InstallESD.dmg`).
- Second parameter is the output directory for the newly built image.

The command will finish with output like this:
```
-- Fixing permissions..
-- Checksumming output image..
-- MD5: 4323943c7fefd47a9218c5777ee11b36
-- Done. Built image is located at /Users/allison/iso/OSX_InstallESD_10.12_16A323.dmg.cdr. Add this iso and its checksum to your template.
```

# Next Steps

Now you're ready to do a `rake build` in the [chef-osx12-base repo](https://github.com/saucelabs-images/chef-osx12-base). Be sure to set `ISO_PATH` to the location of the image produced by `prepare_iso.sh`.

### For VirtualBox

Example command:
```
bundle exec rake build BUILDER=virtualbox-iso ISO_PATH=~/iso/OSX_InstallESD_10.12_16A323.dmg.cdr
```

This will probably take about 20-30 minutes locally.

Afterward, you can load the image in VirtualBox using a command like this:
```
VBoxManage import output-virtualbox-iso/packer-virtualbox-iso-1478286404.ovf --vsys 0 --vmname sierra
```

Be sure to use the path of the `.ovf` generated by `rake build`.

### For QEMU

After the `.dmg.cdr` image is built and you've transferred it to vmbuilder, do a `rake build` like this:

```
bundle exec rake build BUILDER=qemu ISO_PATH=~/OSX_InstallESD_10.12_16A323.dmg.cdr
```

When finished, you can launch the VM using:
```
bundle exec rake start BUILDER=qemu
```

You could also use a modified libvirt XML template to define the Sierra VM and launch it.